so let's dive into the cool flow or
framework that I've been following so
first and foremost we've got what's
called a pattern interrupt which you may
or may not have heard of and that is
basically something that when this
prospect that you're calling is first
answering the cool we want to throw them
off a bit we want to grab their
attention and essentially make them not
hang up on us so we usually use
something that's disarmingly honest and
kind of thr the prospect back a bit
because they're like why is a sales rep
being so upfront and so transparent so
my opener is I did not coin this I've
heard folks like Benjamin den and many
other sales folk use this as a pattern
interrupt so it's hey Steve or hey Sally
I'll be very up front it is a sales cool
so I'm not sure if that makes you want
to slam the phone or throw your phone
out the window or perhaps let me have 30
seconds and then decide I'll be very up
front it is a sales cool makes you want
to slam the phone in despair or let me
have 30 seconds on the side so
essentially we're saying this is a sales
call we are calling you out the blue can
I have 30 seconds or do you want to slam
the phone or Chuck your phone out the
window quite often you'll get a laugh
very occasionally people will give a
hard no we'll dive into some of the
other objections in a second but most
the time people will say something like
who are you and where you're calling
from to which you can reply something
like I'll tell you what can I quickly
whiz through why it was I chose to call
you and then if you want you can end it
there or it might be worth a
conversation is that fair most of the
time they'll say yes it's all good I've
um I've run kind of inside sales team so
I it works for it appreciate that so in
short another pattern interrupt you can
try is hey Steve or hey Melissa I know
I'm an interruption can I grab 27
seconds to share why it was I chose to
call you and again you're using that
patn interrupt you're throwing them back
by being disarmingly honest that it's a
sales call you're interrupting them and
then giving them the option to let you
have a bit of an opener once you get
granted that opener I recommend sharing
the top two or top three problems your
offer fixes I call upon quite a few CMOS
and usually they tell me they've got a
good offer but they sometimes get a tad
frustrated as when idle clients are
searching for your services on Google
quite often competitors will sh up above
you stealing traffic or opportunities to
the website or maybe you invest a bit
already into it SEO or paid ads but
perhaps it feels like the website is
failing to convert steady flow of those
visitors into qualified leads or demos
for the sales team or maybe that's not
it maybe you've got an agency doing some
of this already but it somewhat feels
like they're failing to deliver on the
big promises that they said on day one I
get the feeling you're going to tell me
none of that's ever an issue in your
world that be ni um it's probably more
of a timing thing so so are you are you
a digital agency Focus so not a feature
dump not sharing how great you are not
even mentioning your name or company
name so in our case at breaking B2B I'd
say well typically I'm calling VPS a
marketing CMOS marketing leaders and
they tell me that usually they've got a
great offer but they're a little
frustrated that every time someone
searches for what you do on Google they
see one of your competitors above you
stealing traffic or opportunities to
your website or maybe that's not it
maybe you invest in SEO or ads already
but it feels like your website is
failing to convert that hard-earned
traffic into a steady stre of qualified
leads or demos for your Sal team well
perhaps that's not it perhaps you've got
an agency you partner with but slightly
concerned that they are not delivering
right now but I get the feeling moving
on to point three I get the feeling that
none of these are actually applicable to
your world so you're basically going for
a super negative which almost causes
them to correct that negative or you
could say something like but I get the
feeling that everything's perfect and
none of this is even slightly relevant
you so you're basically prompting them
to correct you because as humans we like
to if someone says something weird and
we think no they're wrong we want to
correct them so you're actually going
for no you're trying to get a response
by going super negative and quite often
straight away they'll correct you and
they might say well no it's not perfect
or they might say yes it's super perfect
to which in my case I right might
respond which is relevant to my offer
you'd have to tweak this for your offer
so in my case of offering kind of to fix
SEO issues or website issues we might
say are your website generating kind of
steady flow of of leads and I'm guessing
you're going to tell me that a sales
team a fully booked and speaking to
qualified prospects and if they keep
going across the yes track and they'll
have none of it and it just might be
worth moving on to the next dial but if
they are receptive and they see they say
nothing's quite perfect to which you
would then question and say well of
those three things of those three
problems or in your case you might list
two juicy problems which one would you
say is an issue and then just recap them
so in my case i' recap the three issues
like is it competitors constantly above
you an organic search on Google is it
website not converting traffic or is it
maybe a current agency not delivering
get them to pinpoint one problem to
which they they may dive into one or
they may beat around the bush so you try
and get some more clarity once they do
ask for some kind of example so can you
give me a I don't suppose you could give
me a quick example of that so let's
pretend in my example we said yeah quite
a lot of time competitors are above us
we have neglected organic search we have
neglected SEO tweak that to your offer
and then you say well okay could you
perhaps give me a quick example of of
that and they might say well we provide
this offer but when prospects search for
on Google our main competitors ahead of
us and then you might say Okay um so
what what kind of impact or how do you
think that's affecting business what
impact is that having on business or how
do you think that's affecting your
company and then we basically the whole
point of this is to get prospects that
we're calling out the blue to open up so
um at this stage once they start talking
you can even say something like I
appreciate I've already had that 30
seconds that I asked for is it okay if
we talk for a minute or so longer and
that shows even more transparency and
might get them to open up a bit more
that's an optional ad here so yeah you
want to dive into that impact it's
having on the business or how is that
affecting you or how do you feel about
that and get them to open up a bit and
hopefully they'll say we actually it's
affecting pipeline or depending on what
your offer is or it's affecting our
staff rates or it's AFF retention or
it's affecting churn rates and once
you've got an idea if there is actually
a problem there the whole one point is
you want to dig into how how expensive
this problem is are they motivated to
fix it is actually a problem that
they're bothered about fixing that's the
whole point of a prospect in cool really
to understand if there's a problem the
impact is having the motivation if
they've got some motivation to get that
problem fixed um and you're trying to
weave in a bit of emotion you're trying
to understand if it's actually something
they want to sort out so then you might
ask after that once they've opened up a
bit you've asked a few questions
depending on the flow you might say have
you tried to fix this before I mean it's
it sounds quite annoying have you tried
to do something in house or perhaps
you've tried a company or a piece of
tech or an agency and again they might
say yeah we've tried it a few times uh
didn't quite work um to which you might
say well I me it sounds like a problem
but it almost feels like you might have
given up or you might have stopped
trying to fix it and you're hoping that
they're going to correct you to which
they might say well no we really need to
solve it it we just haven't found the
right partner or they might say yeah
actually it's booked on for quarter four
we we we're going to sort that
internally to which you might dive in a
bit deeper and say well have you got
resources in house or is that something
you're going to fix yourself and you
want to see really if they're motivated
if they've got resources to fix it um
let's pretend they do say well yeah it's
something we're interested in doing at
which stage you're looking for an in
where they might say something like well
Sam what is it you folks do you've asked
me a lot of questions like what is it
you actually do at some stage either
earlier or bu by now they're probably
going to say okay you've asked me quite
a lot what is it you guys
do which you may get asked if you don't
you might weave this in naturally you
say look if I told you that we've helped
businesses just like yourself eliminate
some of these problems forever is that
something that you'd be open to
discussing is that something you'd be
against um you think I catch up or me
giving you a shout on to Late July is
that going to be too soon or um no I
think that' be good again go for is that
something you'd be opposed or against of
discussing further to which they'll
probably say I guess not or no if they
say something wish you was like I guess
not you say you guess not and they you
want either get a hard no I'm not
against discussing it further or yes and
then after that let's say they do bite
and they say yeah I'm open to discussing
it say are you again setting some time
aside perhaps later this week to have a
chat around it and see if it is
something we could potentially help with
if they say sure you say have you got
your calendar available have you got
your calendar open and at which stage
you can finalize a date time and date
try and send them the calendar invite
whilst you're there on the cool itself
and then what you want to do to make
sure they actually show up to this
meeting that you've worked so hard to
set you want to share an agenda briefly
on the call so on this call if it's okay
with you what we'll do is I'll take a
little bit of time to kind of learn a
bit more about your world any problems
you're having and such but if you don't
mind if at any stage on that cool you
don't feel that we're a good fit to help
you are you happy to tell us no this is
what's called an upfront contract to
which they they should say yes we're
happy to tell you if this no and
likewise if you if I feel that I don't
feel feel like our company is best
suited to help you do you mind if we say
no I don't feel you're best fit for our
company I'll even try and recommend you
to one of my peers if I know someone
that's a better match to which they'll
probably say absolutely fine cool I'm
shooting across the canor invite look
forward to speaking then one bonus is
you can say is there anyone else on your
team that you feel would be annoyed if
we didn't include them in the decision
or not in the decision rather in the
appointment um to which you're trying to
get all the execs on their team involved
and they're cool so you have to do back
and forth so try and get that nailed and
then the last thing you should ask is I
don't suppose there's any reason why
this date that we've booked in that I'll
be crying into afternoon cup of tea
because you've ghosted me you've not
shown up that won't be happening will it
and then they'll probably correct you
and say no no we'll we'll come because
you've talked about our problems and you
seem like you know what you're talking
about so I look forward to meeting so
fire over the calendar invite and there
is a meeting on your books but that's a
going perfectly scenario well almost
perfectly but what if they say no at any
stage or they say that's not relevant
well you might again we're going into
we're going a bit deeper so we might say
is everything perfect right now like you
depending on what your offer is is
you're getting more leads and cents or
is your kind of Staff rate really well
or is your turn rate super good and if
you're still getting a hard no and push
backed on everything well you might have
some kind of lead Magnet or something
they could you could offer that Persona
in my case I say are you against me of
sharing my free playbooks and adding you
to my email tips a lot of people say
yeah that's fine well can I connect with
you on LinkedIn I share daily tips
around our Niche here and again most of
these people do that and the good thing
about this is you're playing the long
game so these folks that don't
immediately say yes but maybe a bit
vaguely interested you connect with them
on LinkedIn or you adding them to your
email list and eventually you'll stay
top of mine so if they do need your
offer or have the problem you fixed in
the future you're going to be the one
that they go to and one last thing you
can say if it's a hard no is you can ask
can I ask one last question before I let
you go I don't suppose you know anyone
that's less fortunate than your good s
that might be having these problems or
might be struggling with this problem
that we talked about um in another
organization so you're basically asking
for referral as a last ditch option um
sometimes I'll say yeah actually I know
Steve or Jess at excorp or sometimes
they say no but you never know if you
don't ask for that referral um but going
B down to Common
objections one you might hear straight
away when you do your opener can I have
30 seconds or do you want to slam the
phone on me is I don't take cold calls
to which I heard this one I can't
remember who it was from but is I'm
guessing you hate receiving sales calls
as much as I hate making them or I'm
guessing you hate receiving cold calls
as much as I hate making them sometimes
that gives me a laugh that gives the
prospect a laugh and they'll say go on
then have a few seconds to which you can
dive in you might get kind of progress
along this strategy I've laid out but
they might say can you just send me an
email to which you say happy to send an
email what is it exactly you want to see
trying to get them to open up a little
bit more to which they might say well
can you share about kind of this this
problem you fix and you say what exactly
is is it about that problem that's kind
of that you want to discuss further
you're trying to get them to open up and
kind of you're still happy to send
content but you want to have a bit more
discussion and see if it's worth
actually setting an appointment and
perhaps they might get event
going to open up and talk about the
problem you can understand the impact
and see if you can actually do some
business and set an appointment later
online or if they push push push for an
email try and see ask something like if
I send you this email is that just a
nice way of getting me off the phone if
if if that's the case I'm happy to end
it now and save everyone time or they
might push back and say no I do actually
want to see this because it's on the
radar for Q3 you might say sure I'll
send you some some info now on email
what would you like to see exactly and
then when should we when should we chat
again so you can get a coolback rather
than an appointment um we have a
provider for that you might say
something like that's great most folks
do um on a scale of 1 to 10 how are they
performing they might say seven out of
10 you might say what's preventing them
from being a 10 and again you're trying
to get an opening to see if it's worth a
conversation perhaps picking up at a
later date if not now timing is off
similar kind of thing so perhaps when
it's due for Renewal um is there any
reason why you might look to review this
in the next six months or what would
happen to change for you in order to
kind of recess this and see if there is
some kind of opening or perhaps it's not
me that's not me that looks after this
this side of the business okay uh would
you would you be against sharing who
actually is responsible and I can
perhaps drop them a message on LinkedIn
so that is a rundown of the flow that
I've been using um some ways to some
common objections and other options to
stay top of mind if it's a no for now